### Exit Statuses and Return Codes
* Every time a command is executed, it returns an ***exit status***. The *exit status* is also called as an ***exit code*** or a ***return code*** which is an integer ranging from 0 to 255.
* By convention, commands that execute successfully return a "0" as the *exit status*. If any error is encountered a non-zero exit status is returned. These *return codes* can be used in the script for error checking.
* The variable "*$?*" contains the *exit status* of the previously executed command. The *exit status* of a command can be used to make a decision or perform a different action based on the *exit status*.
#### Example:
```bash
#!/bin/bash
HOST="google.com"
ping -c 1 $HOST
if [ "$?" -eq "0" ]
then
    echo "$HOST reachable."
else
    echo "$HOST unreachable!!"
fi
```
* The *return code* of a command can be assigned to a variable and the variable can be used later in the script.
#### Example:
```bash
#!/bin/bash
HOST="google.com"
ping -c 1 $HOST
RETURN_CODE=$?
if [ "RETURN_CODE" -ne "0" ]
then
    echo "$HOST unreachable!!"
fi
```
* In addition to if statements with an *exit status*, logical ANDs *(&&)* and ORs *(||)* can also be used.
* To determine the *return code* of the shell script use the *exit* command. If the *exit* command is specified without a return code or *exit* command is not used at all, then the *exit status* of the previously executed command is used as an *exit status*.
* The *exit* command can be used anywhere in the shell script but as soon as the *exit* command is executed the shell script terminates.
### Functions:
* ***Functions*** allow the user to write a block of code once and use it many times. A *function* is simply a block of reusable code that performs an action and returns an *exit status* or *return code*.
* Each time a particular task needs to be performed, simply calling the *function* that contains the required code would suffice.
* Thus, the length of the script is reduced and all the changes, tests, troubleshooting and documenting a given task can be done at a single place.
* A *function* must be defined before it is called. When a *function* is called data can be passed into that function.
* There are two ways to create a *function* in the shell script:  
  1.
 ```bash
function function_name() {
  #statements
}
```
  2.
```bash
function_name() {
  #statements
}
```
* To call or execute a *function* simply list its name in the script. After a *function* is defined it acts as any other command that can be used in the shell script.
* While calling a *function* the set of parenthesis[()] should **NOT** follow the function name.
* Variables can be of two types: *Global* and *Local*. The *local variables* are used within functions and defined using the keyword *local*. All variables need to be defined before use.
* The *exit status* of a *function* can be implicit(similar to a shell script) or explicit. Explicit *exit codes* are set using return statements.
