### Shell Script Order and Checklist
* All the scripts should start with a ***shebang(#!)***. This is the first line of the script and declares the interpreter to be used to execute the script.
* Next comes a comment summarizing what the script does and maybe why it exists.
* If *global* variables are used in the script, then they should be defined next, unless their value cannot be determined until a later point in the script.
* Functions should be next, all the functions should be defined together. Within the functions, use *local* keyword to define the variables that are local to the functions.
* After all the functions are defined, the main portion of the shell script begins.
* Finally, it is always a good practice to explicitly use an *exit status*. If the *exit status* is not specified, the exit status of the previously executed command will be used as the *exit status* of the script.
### Wildcards
* A ***wildcard*** is a character or a string that is used to match file and directory names.
* *Wildcards* are used to create search patterns that when expanded will return a list of matching files and directories. The act of expanding *wildcards* into the list of matching files and directories is called ***Globbing***.
* To match a *wildcard* character, use an *escape sequence* **(\\)** i.e. place a *'\\'* before the wildcard character to be matched.
### Case Statements
* Instead of using an *if statement* to compare the same variables against different values, a ***case statement*** can be used.
* It is easier to read a *case statement* as compared to a complex *if statement*
#### Syntax:
```bash
 case "$var1" in
   pattern_1)                # Case Sensitive
   #Commands
     ;;
  pattern_N)
  #Commands
 esac
```
#### Example:
```bash
  case "$1" in
    start | START )
    /usr/sbin/sshd
      ;;
    stop | STOP)
    kill $(cat /var/run/sshd.pid)
      ;;
    *)
    echo "Usage: $0 start|stop"; exit 1
    ;;
  esac
```
