### Logging
* ***Logs*** typically answer *who*, *what*, *where*, *when*, and *why* something occurred. *Logs* are useful when a shell script performs several actions or produces a output that may scroll off the screen.
* The Linux operating system uses the ***syslog*** standard for message logging. This allows programs and applications to generate messages that can be captured, processed and stored by the system logger.
* The *syslog* standard uses ***facilities*** and ***severities*** to categorize messages. Each message is labelled with a *facility code* and a *severity level*. The various combinations of *facilities* and *severities* can be used to determine how a message is handled.
* *Facilities* are used to indicate what type of program or what part of the system the message originated from.
#### Example:
      1. Message labelled with "kern" facility originates from Linux kernel.
      2. Messages labelled with "mail" facility come from applications that are involved in handling mail.
* *Facilities* ranging from "*local0*" to "*local7*" are to be used to create custom logs. The *severities* are *emergency(emerg)*, *alert*, *critical(crit)*, *error(err)*, *warning*, *notice*, *info* and *debug*.
* Most messages are simply written to a file. The logging rules are configurable and can be changed.
* The ***logger*** command generates *syslog* messages. By default the *logger* utility creates messages using the *user* facility and the *notice* severity.
        -p: Used to generate message of a different facility and severity than the default.
        -t: Used to tag the message. Typically, the name of the script is used as a tag.
        -i: Used in case the process id is to be used in the message.
        -s: Displays the message to the screen in addition to sending to the logging system.
#### Example:
      1. logger -p local0.info "Message"
      2. logger -t my_script -p local0.info "Message"
      3. logger -i -t my_script -p local0.info "Message"
      4. logger -s -p local0.info "Message"
In the examples above *local0* represents the *facility code* and *info* represents the *severity level*.
