### Decision Making- The *if* Statement
#### Syntax:
```bash
if [[ condition ]]
then
  #statements
fi
```
                                    OR
```bash
if [[ condition ]]
then
  #statements
elif [[ condition ]]
then
  #statements
else
  #statements
fi
```
### The *for* Loop
#### Syntax:
```bash
for (( VARIABLE_NAME in ITEM_1 ITEM_N ))
do
  #statements
done
```
* To access items on the command line, we need to use positional parameters- $0, $1, $2 and so on up to $9.
        $0- Script itself
        $1- 1st parameter/argument
        $2- 2nd parameter/argument and so on.
* To access all the items on the command line we use ***$@***. A *comment* in a shell script start with a ***#***(except shebang).
* The *read* command is used to accept user input
#### Syntax:
```bash
read -p "PROMPT" VARIABLE_NAME
```
#### Example:
```bash
      read -p "Enter a user name:" USER
```
### The *while* Loop
* A ***while loop*** is a loop that repeats a series of commands for as long as the given condition is true.
#### Syntax:
```bash
while [[ condition ]]
do
  #statements
done
```
* This *condition* in the *while loop* could be some sort of tests such as checking to see if a variable has a certain value or checking to see if a file exists.
* The *condition* could also be any command, if the command succeeds and returns a "0" *exit status* then the *while loop* will continue, when the command fails and returns a non-zero *exit status*, the condition is false and the *while loop* stops.
* Typically, the *while loop* checks for a condition that will be changed by the commands inside the loop.
* In cases where an infinite loop is required, it can be done so by simply using the *TRUE* command so that the condition will always return true.
* With *while loops* the number of times the loop executes can be controlled by the user.
#### Example:
```bash
INDEX=1
while [[ $INDEX -lt 6 ]]
do
  echo "Creating Project- $INDEX"
  mkdir /usr/local/project-$INDEX
  ((INDEX++))
done
```
2. User input populates the variable used to control the *while loop*:
```bash
 while [[ "$CORRECT" != y ]]
 do
   read -p "Enter your name:" NAME
   read -p "Is ${NAME} correct" CORRECT
 done
```
3. Return code of a command:
```bash
while [[ ping -c | app1 > dev/null ]]
do
  echo "app1 still up...."
  sleep 5
done
echo "app1 down continuing..."
```
