### Debugging
* ***Debugging*** is basically process of finding and fixing errors in shell scripts. Bash has built-in options for *debugging*.
* A software bug is an error in the computer program that causes it produce an unexpected or incorrect result.
* The built-in options can be used by updating the first line of the script to include one or more of these options:
          -x: Prints commands and their arguments as they are executed. It is the most popular option. This type of *debugging* is called ***print debugging***, ***tracing***, ***x-trace***
#### Usage:
```bash
#!/bin/bash -x                      # In shell scripts
set -x                              # On command-line
set +x                              # Stop debugging
```
 **For a specific section:**
```bash
set -x
#commands
set +x
```
#### Example:
1.
```bash
#!/bin/bash -x
TEST_VAR="text"
echo "$TEST_VAR"
```
2. Setting up debugging for a portion of the script:
```bash
#!/bin/bash
TEST_VAR="test"
set -x
echo "$TEST_VAR"
set +x
hostname
```
          -e: Causes the script to exit immediately if a command exits with a non-zero exit status.
          -v: Prints the shell input lines as they are read, before any substitutions or expansions are applied.
          help set | less: Will display the options available for debugging.
* The environment variable that is valuable for shell script debugging is **PS4**. *PS4* is expanded and displayed before each command during an *execution trace*. The *PS4* variable can be explicitly set.
* In other words, when the *set -x* option is used for the shell script the contents of *PS4* are printed on the screen. By default, this is just a plus sign.
* Bash includes several built-in variables like *$BASH_SOURCE* which is the name of the script itself, *$LINENO* which is the line number etc.
#### Example:
```bash
#!/bin/bash -x
PS4='+ $BASH_SOURCE : $LINENO:'
TEST_VAR="test"
echo "$TEST_VAR"
```
#### Manual Debugging
* Most of the times using the built-in options for debugging is enough, however if more control on debugging is required then one can create his own code to do it
#### Example:
```bash
#!/bin/bash
DEBUG="true"
if [[ $DEBUG ]]
then
  echo "Debug mode is ON."
else
  echo "Debug mode is OFF"
fi
```
### Syntax Highlighting
* Many times bugs or errors in a shell script are due to simple syntax errors. These mistakes can be caught before the execution of the script if the editor supports ***Syntax Highlighting***.
* Some of the editors that support *syntax highlighting* are *vi/vim*, *emacs*, *gedit*, *nano* etc.
### DOS v/s LINUX: File types
* Plain text files like shell scripts contain a control character to represent the end-of-line.
* For UNIX or LINUX system, the control character is a *line feed*. DOS or Windows use two characters- *carriage return* and a *line feed*.
* When a windows file is opened in a Linux, it contains additional characters(carriage returns), however when the file is displayed on the screen, the additional carriage returns cannot be seen.
#### Example:
Consider
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$cat script.sh
```
**Output:**
```bash
#!/bin/bash
# This file contains carriage returns
echo "Hello World!"
```
Now consider,
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$cat -v script.sh
```
**Output:**
```bash
#!/bin/bash ^M
# This file contains carriage returns ^M
echo "Hello World!" ^M
```
* Like *cat* the *file* command can also be used to check whether the file contains carriage returns. To remove these characters easily, an utility called ***dos2unix*** can be used. One may have to manually install this utility on the system.
