### Data Manipulation and Text Transformation with sed
* ***sed*** stands for **s**tream **ed**itor and is used for editing streams. A stream is data that travels from:  
    * One process to another through a pipe.
    * One file to another as a redirect.
    * One device to another.
* The *sed* command is used to perform basic text transformations on an input stream.
#### Example:
      1. Substitute some text for other text.
      2. Remove lines.
      3. Append text after given lines.
      4. Insert text before certain lines.
* The *sed* command is used programmatically and not interactively. Thus, it differs from *vim*, *gedit*, *nano* and other such editors.
* The most common use of *sed* is that it acts as the command-line version of *Find and Replace*. The *sed* is a standalone utility and not a shell built-in.
#### Syntax:
      sed [options] {scripts} [input_file]
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed 's/assistant/assistant to the/' manager.txt          
```
* In the above command:  
      -s: Stands for Substitute
      'assistant': Original text or the text to be replaced.
      'assistant to the': New text or text that replaces the previously specified text.
* The above command does not alter the contents of the file *manager.txt*, it just sending its output via the standard output(terminal).
* The *sed* is case sensitive. If nothing matches, *sed* does not perform any alterations and the text is returned without alterations. To perform a case insensitive transformation-
      sed 's/search pattern/replacement pattern/flags' [input_file]
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed 's/assistant regional/general/i' manager.txt
```
      'i/I' flag: case insensitive or Ignore case.
* By default, *sed* only replaces the first occurrence of the search pattern on a line. To override this, use the 'G' flag.
      'G' flag: Global Replace. Replaces all the occurrences.
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed 's/myself/my husband/g' love.txt
```
Consider the following example,
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed 's/myself/my hubby/2' love.txt
```
  The above command will replace only the second occurrence of the search pattern in a line.
* If one has to save the output of the *sed* command along with it being displayed, then, one way is to redirect the output of *sed* command to a file.
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed 's/myself/my hubby/g' love.txt > mylove.txt
```
* If the *sed* command has to alter the original file the '*-i*' option can be used.
        '-i': in place editing.
* To make a backup copy of the original file before ** alters the file; supply some text right after the *-i* option and *sed* will append that text to the copy of the file.
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed -i.bak 's/myself/my hubby/g' love.txt
```
* To save only the lines where matches were made, use the *w* flag followed by the filename.
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed 's/love/like/gw like.txt' love.txt
```
* The above command will display the entire contents of the file *love.txt* to the screen with any and all replacements it made and it creates a new file *like.txt* that contains only the lines where replacements were made.
* The *sed* can also be used in a pipeline instead of a file to work on
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$cat like.txt | sed 's/myself/my family/g'
```
  The above command is equivalent to
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed 's/myself/my family/g' like.txt
```
* If the search pattern and/or the replacement pattern contains a forward slash(/) we can use an escape sequence(\\). A feature of *sed* is that any character can be used as a delimiter. Thus,
#### Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$echo '/home/adu' | sed 's/\/home\/adu\/export\/usr\/aduk\/'
```
is exactly same as
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$echo '/home/adu' | sed 's#/home/adu#/export/usr/aduk#'
```
* Thus if the search pattern or the replacement pattern contains a forward slash(/) any other character can be used as the delimiter.
* To remove or delete certain lines use the *d* command along with *sed*. The search pattern used while removing the lines should be unique to the lines being removed.
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '/This/d' love.txt
```
  The above command removes all the lines that match(contain) the word "*This*". Consider,
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '/^#/d' sol.sh
```
* This command will remove all comments in the script "*sol.sh*". In regular expressions the carat symbol(^) matches a position and not a character
* The command below deletes all the blank lines from the specified file
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '/^$/d' filename
```
* To use multiple *sed* expressions at the same time separate them with a semicolon(;)
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '/^#/d; /^$/d' sol.sh
```
* Different types of *sed* commands can be combined. Thus,
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '/^#/d; /^$/d; s/bash/csh/' sol.sh
```
is equivalent to
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed -e '/^#/d' -e '/^$/d' -e 's/bash/csh/' sol.sh
```
is equivalent to
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed -f script.sed sol.sh
```
in which the file *script.sed* contains different *sed* expressions.
* An address determines on what lines the *sed* command will be executed; if no address is given the *sed* will be performed on all lines.
####Example:
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '1 s/bash/csh/' sol.sh
```
* The command
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '/group/ s/apache/httpd/' config
```
will replace "*apache*" with "*httpd*" only on the lines that contain the word *group*.
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '1,3 s/run/execute/' config
```
will replace the occurrences on the first 3 lines.
```console
[me@linuxbox~]$sed '/#User/, /^$/ s/run/execute/' config
```
will run the command on every line from the line that starts with "*#User*" till a blank line.
